text:hello how are you today?	labels:i'm great thanks! how are you doing?
text:I'm good thanks	labels:i'm great thanks! how are you doing?	episode_done:True
text:Who are video volunteers?	labels:Video Volunteers is a non governmental organisation working in the fields of media and human rights.
text:What do they do?	labels:They enable marginalised communities to raise their voices for social justice.
text:Can you explain more?	labels:IndiaUnheard is the primary community news network run by Video Volunteers. IU operates on the shoulders of community correspondents who have come from some of the marginalised communities and socio-economically backward districts in the country.These community correspondents report on issues that people in their districts are currently facing as also how the correspondents have helped community members to solve those issues. These videos inform viewers about relevant government schemes while also inspiring them to contact relevant government officials so that they can contribute to solving the problem at hand.	episode_done:True
text:What is MOJO Video/Evidence Video?	labels:Evidence video is directly related to evidence, it asks straight questions like how have laws and offices been abused and what is the evidence related to these. Evidence videos can bemade in 2 ways. Photo story and Video story   episode_done:True
text:What issues can we capture?	labels:Untouchability,Corruption,Forced Eviction,Police Torture,Caste based Violence.	episode_done:True
text:What all can be akin to witness or evidentiary footage?	labels:Photograph of evidence related to the incident or issue o Video of evidence related to the incident or issue o Interview of the community o Testimony of injuries or the injured person o Paper documents.	episode_done:True
text: How to make MOJO Video/Evidence Video?	labels:Determine what your story is.● Collect photos, video footage, interviews and information related to the issue ● Script ● Edit note ● Record voiceover and anchor recording ● Editing software ● Screening or publishing on social media.	episode_done:True
text:How to use MOJO Video/Evidence Video for social change?	labels:Start with your own community Screening your films for your community helps in getting their support for the causes being espoused as also in starting conversations about the issue among different communities. These films and conversation inspire community members to take action.	episode_done:True
text:How can I make make my community understand what IndiaUnheard is all about and how can I get them to support us?	labels:● Show the ‘village promo video’ when you meet people. ● Explain that this is ‘solutions journalism’ – you are not just reporting you will help them find a solution. That’s the difference. ● Listen to people’s concerns. If they seem suspicious find out why. Talk to them and find out what their concern is. Do they distrust your motivation? Are they afraid of the consequences/repercussions? Did they have a bad experience with media/NGOs? Address their particular issue. Listen. Acknowledge. Be positive. ● Tell them what’s wrong with mainstream media and how we are different. Unlike mainstream media we are interested in the issues of the most marginalized communities and. What drives us is NOT profit but our commitment to human rights and democracy. ● Explain IU –we’re a national network set up precisely because media is so bad for us. CCs in 130 districts. The videos go to the UN, to govt, to TV stations. ● Give them power and responsibility in your video & impact process. Some people want to be given more authority. E.g., ask a community member to deliver the call to action. Ask the victim to deliver it! People will definitely respond. ● Make videos that convey a ‘collective call to action’, so your videos show that it’s not just you but you & community. For instance ask villagers to speak about the importance of engaged communities and solving our own problems. Put bites into your videos like, ‘if we are informed we can do anything!’ then your viewers will see others supporting you and they will be inspiring ● If the community are asking for money, stopping you, refusing to take your calls – it is a sign you are doing a bad job in building community support in your area & you need to find out what you are doing wrong.	episode_done:True
text:What’s the Role of a Community Correspondent?	labels:As a CC you: ● Produce one issue video In a month    ● One impact in three months    ● You are curious and always asking questions to understand why things happen ● You are always on the look-out for unique and interesting stories ● You bring out unheard stories ● You work within and with the community ● You are a community leader ● You are a bridge between the government and the community - communications and information are your tools. ● You provide crucial information back to the community ● You are passionate about creating change.	episode_done:True
text:What Happens after I Make My Video?	labels:● You will mail the footage to the VV office or take it physically to your state office ○ Note: You might need to send written translations. It is totally fine to conduct interviews in a regional language or dialect, but make sure you send VV the translation. The translation has to be in Hindi or English.● The Mentor/Regional Editor will check your footage once she/he receives it.● If the footage is complete and you have followed your mentor's instructions,your mentor will “approve” your video, and you will be paid within 1 month ofthe date the video reaches the office.○ Sometimes your video is put on ‘hold’ because it is incomplete or not of good quality.’ This means you will need to do more work on it before it can be paid. Reasons for this: it is incomplete, for example the VO or Bite is missing or sequences are missing; or you have not followed your mentored suggestions. Once you sent in the missing pieces your video will be ‘approved.’ ● Editors in VV’s will edit the footage and subtitle the video into English. ● The video will be published on the VV website and promoted in other places. ● You will get a daily SMS update of the published video.	episode_done:True
text:What are the types of Videos CC’s do.	labels:As a CC you make many different kinds of videos, many of which you may choose to experiment with. These include: ● Community profiles ● Success videos ● Informational videos ( Using documentary or drama format ) ● Instructional videos ● Participatory videos ● Music videos ● Mini-documentaries.	episode_done:True
text:Can I make other types of videos besides IU videos?	labels:Pitch a ‘mini-doc’ to Stalin. VV wants CC’s to do more fuller and deeper stories and will pay more for them.Ask your State Coordinators for the format in which this needs to be pitched. ● Call the Training & Mentoring team in Goa for ideas. They will help to develop stories of all the other types mentioned above. ● The gender videos are in different format.Refer to “Khel Badal” manual ● Get rid of the P2C. You don’t have to do them. But in that case your video needs to be good enough to not have it. If you don’t do a p2c you should do a video diary. Make sure in the video diary you give a brief explanation of the video so the editor can edit with that.	episode_done:True
text:What’s an IU Video?	labels:An IU video is always about an issue that you are sure you can solve. Meaning, an Impact Video is possible after you do the impact process with your video. Almost all of them can and should be shown to government officials for redressal and to communities to inform and rally.Typically, these videos are on entitlement/government programs/schemes etc. For example, bad roads, absent teachers, MNREGA payments not done, health centre not working properly etc. The videos feature a sound argument, a main character, great visuals and sequences. It provides information on the government scheme, and explains clearly what the solution is. It also includes YOU, as voice over and on camera. It is your passion, and your personal connection or even lived experience of the issue, that is the basis of your credibility as a journalist. Backing up what you say with facts/evidence is also key to building credibility. It is this, along with your emotional and personal appeal that drives someone to action.  episode_done:True
text:Who is the audience for an IU Video?	labels:The main audience is people in the community and officials in concerned government departments who can solve the problem. To be effective, your video needs to do 2 things: 1. It needs to prove the case so that you can use the video to solve the problem – ie, get an impact. This comes through research and a strong argument. 2. It needs to affect your audience emotionally – shock, touch, inspire, amaze. Make them cry, make them laugh,make them empathize, make them remember forever. This is the power of a great story and of great video.	episode_done:True
text:What should we include in an IU video?	labels:1. Explain the problem – ideally with numbers! Tell us how many people affected by the problem (x percent of the village,number of people, how many districts, since how long, how much money, etc.) ● Don’t just explain the problem - show it. document visually every aspect of that problem you can identify in the location. For instance, visuals of the old woman’s life and how difficult it is for her. Show how your main character spends her entire day. 2. Give the facts of the law or entitlement that is being violated. If you don’t have the details of any government scheme or program, get it from the VV office. Inform communities of their rights. 3. Explain the reason why the problem exists. Sometimes, particularly in a corruption video, an individual may be responsible for the lapse or violation. But you can go deeper, looking into ‘root causes’ of problem. Exploring the root cause gives us the big picture.	episode_done:True
text:4. What has the community done about it – we don’t want them to appear powerless.	labels:eg, all the widows of Faizabad took a delegation to the District Commissioner in 2012. He promised they would disburse the funds. We did it again a year later, but less people participated because frankly they’d started to give up hope. Now we’re all so angry we’ve stopped fighting.    episode_done:True
text:What does the community plan to do about it now - when do they plan to do it  and can you film?	labels:Eg, your main character says, “if you make this video on our problem we will definitely join the fight. You are giving us new energy."	episode_done:True
text:6. Who is the target – ie, who can create the change you want - what’s the call to action.	labels:“Please call the BDO at this number telling him to release the pension for Munira Devi and five other widows of Faizabad village.”	episode_done:True
text::How can I build a support network in the villages or neighborhood.	labels: Most of you have strong community support base because of the social movements you are part of or are involved in. However, if you don’t have this,you must build your network in your community. They will help you get stories and impact. ● You must be outgoing & confident in talking to strangers and not shy. a You must be confident and project yourself like an activist, even when you are nervous. You must feel you are leader. This is hard but try! The only thing stopping you from changing your community is your own fear!  episode_done:True text:How can I find ideas for stories?  labels:● Stories often originate from ‘case studies,’ (ie, one case of a person who complained about being asked for a bribe creates a big story about corruption in the whole department), or news reports, or ‘whistleblowers’, ie important people with access to information. ● Therefore, make a list of sources for stories and stay in touch with those people regularly. local NGOs or social movements; government officials, panchayats, schools/libraries, people who travel often, friends who are curious. Visit government offices to stay up to date with developments. ● Do a story that is easy to find close to you: for instance, you can always do a profile of your village, or of someone successful in your community ● Always read the newspaper. Listen to the radio. Watch news on television. ● Keep a notebook with you everywhere you go! Try to write down 1 or 2 story ideas every day. Refer to this when you need an idea ● Refer back to all the notes given by trainers. The video briefs for campaigns – like Maternal Health and Forced Evictions are full of story ideas. The Gender Manual is full of video ideas. Please read them carefully. ● Write down the Awaz De phone messages when you hear them, that have story ideas for special videos we want. For instance, we might be looking for five videos on farmers and will send a list of sub–themes we want – like ‘farmers & pesticides,’ ‘farmers & suicides, etc.’ ● Discuss the VV campaigns. Also check the date calendar and see if the CC can make a video specific to a date (like Environment Day) etc ● Go to your government contacts –say , ‘what challenges are you facing? Are there things on which you wish to raise awareness in the  community? I can make a video.	episode_done:True
text:Who is the star of your story?	labels:● Your video SHOULD HAVE ONE MAIN CHARACTER. ● You can have more than one character ONLY if the story absolutely requires it. Other characters will be ‘supporting characters’ and they should all be connected to the main character. ● Spend some time getting to know your character and the environment before filming. What do they do? How do they do it? Where do they go? What is happening? What is interesting about the character?	episode_done:True
text:why reporting on these cases in an evidence based  manner with  accuracy  is important?	labels:gender project design with select group of ccs  where ccs are oriented to conductdiscussion clubs using videos produced on instances of everyday patriarchy as wellgender based violence  these discussion clubs aim to create a discourse around theneed to dismantle patriarchy within their communities	episode_done:True
text:q2  why are we challenging patriarchy?	labels:male gender based violence   physical  verbal or emotional is a manifestation of patriarchythis phenomenon is rooted in the idea that men are endowed with the power and right tocontrol and if required   discipline  women  hence to prevent gender based discrimination andviolence  one needs take on its root cause   patriarchy	episode_done:True
text:q 3 how do i produce a video or mentor a cc to produce a video on gender?	labels:read this production and field guide from end to end  this guide is aimed at producing videosthat are different from the iu format  hence ccs and mentors need to approach these storiesdifferently  this guide will help you through identifying story ideas  give you tips on filmingreporting checklists and several short notes that will help you produce videos that chronicle	episode_done:True
text:how patriarchy plays out in different areas of life  please read the entire story idea right down?	labels:to filming tips before starting out  do not skip directly to filming tipswhile reading this guide  you will find many story ideas that they would like to film	episode_done:True
text:q 4 how do i plan and approach videos on gender based violence?	labels:khel badal  dismantle patriarchy       4    www  videovolunteers  orgthis guide   also aims at ensuring that you report on gender based violence with sensitivityaccuracy  stories on gender based violence should go beyond r  eporting  the act of violenceand  examine  the effectiveness of recourse mechanisms for survivors  remember to read allsections on protocols for reporting and intervention  rights of a survivor  protocols for policeand doctors and several reporting checklists to make good videos on gender based violence	episode_done:True
text:q 5 i have identified a story idea  who do i pitch it story to or discuss it with?	labels:gender project story ideas should not be discussed with your field mentors  cc mentors  butwith your state coordinator or stalin or nupur or manish or rajkumarnote for state coordinators   please ask stalin or nupur for guidance if you find it difficult tomentor a story  do this only after  you have the one liner  which is who  where  when andwhat	episode_done:True
text:q 6 do the gender videos follow the iu format?	labels:yes and nothis guide will equip you to produce gender videos under two categories1  everyday patriarchy2  gender based violencevideos that chronicle everyday patriarchy will n               ot  follow the iu formatthey don t need to have an opening p2c or ctathey will have vos and a closing p2c  the closing p2c will not be an appeal but	episode_done:True
text:a round up  in which you express your opinion on the issue and why it exists?	labels:interviews you conduct for these videos need to be conversational and not arapid fire round of questions  in other words     baat cheet karni hai  sawaaljawaab nahithe filming tips section of this guide will help you prepare for these interviewsas well as visualize these storiesread through this production and field guide to identify what elements yourstory needs  discuss with mentors for claritygreat b rolls are a mustvideos on gender based violence will have all elements   p2cs and voiceover and call to actionyou must follow all protocols for reporting on gender based violence  refer topart ii of this guide  reporting on gender based violence	episode_done:True
text:q 7 who will review the footage?	labels:your mentors will review the footage  this means that the footage is reviewed either by thestate coordinator or the mentors in goa office	episode_done:True
text:q 8 where will gender videos be edited?	labels:note for state coordinators and state editors   editing of all gender videos will take place atthe goa officekhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       5    www  videovolunteers  org	episode_done:True
text:q 9 do these videos need to be edited differently?	labels:yes  video editors are encouraged to use their individual creativity while producing thesevideos  video editors  must  read this guide fully  to get a sense of the kind of stories that will	episode_done:True
text:come in  do also read the discussion club handbook to understand how these videos will be?	labels:put to usevideos on everyday patriarchy will  not  have a  call to action  and will most likely be used in adiscussion club  therefore  they can be conversational interviews  some gender videos can beedited using just visuals  a series of vox pops can make compilations  videos on commonthemes can also make compilationsvideos on gender based violence will have a cta  this means  that the cc will need to use itfor local advocacy to solve the problem reported in the video  therefore  these videos can	episode_done:True
text:follow the regular iu format  however  you re encouraged to be creative  remember  that our?	labels:stories of gender based violence should go beyond the act of violence and  examine  theeffectiveness of recourse mechanisms for survivors  the edited video should bring outviolations of protocols and procedures  more than the focusing solely on the description andrecounting of the incident  editors  must  read all sections on protocols for reporting andintervention  rights of a survivor  protocols for police and doctors and several reportingchecklistsif need be  reach out to stalin or nupur when a story comes in for edit	episode_done:True
text:q 10 are all gender videos to be published?	labels:yes but we need informed consent for filming as well publishing  usually we get consent for	episode_done:True
text:filming  however  you must inform the interviewee that the video you are filming will be?	labels:watched globally  get the consent as an interview on camera	episode_done:True
text:payment for these videos will be same as regular iu video   however  videos that are not?	labels:pitched and discussed with the mentors will not be paidkhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       6    www  videovolunteers  orgunderstanding gender  sexpatriarchy	episode_done:True
text:sometimes it is hard to understand what exactly is meant by the term  gender   and how it?	labels:differs from the closely related term  sex   while   sex   refers to the biological andphysiological characteristics that define men and women     gender   refers to the sociallyconstructed roles  behaviours  activities  and attributes that a given society considersappropriate for men and womento put it another waymale  and  female  are sex categories  while  masculine  and  feminine  are gendercategoriessome examples of sex characteristicswomen menstruate while men do notmen generally have larger bones than womensome examples of gender characteristicsin rural india  women earn significantly less money than men for similar workin most parts of the world  women do more housework than menso  people are born female or male or intersex   but are taught to be girls and boys who growinto women and men  they are taught what the  appropriate  behaviour and attitudes  roles and	episode_done:True
text:activities are for them  and how they should relate to other people  this learned behaviour is?	labels:what makes up gender identity  and determines gender roles and responsibilitiesintersex  in humans and other animals  describes variations in sex characteristics includingchromosomes  gonads  sex hormones  genitals that do not fit binary notions of male andfemale bodiesunderstanding patriarchythe dictionary defines  patriarchy  as  a social organization marked by the supremacy of thefather in the clan or family in both domestic and religious functions   it is a sociopolitical systemthat dictates that men are entitled to be in power and dominate women  such a system impliesthat the natural state of gender relations is a dynamic of dominance and submissionkhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       7    www  videovolunteers  orgit insists that men are inherently dominating  superior to everything and everyone else isdeemed weak  especially women  women are seen as weak  submissive and an extension ofmen and the highest accomplishments a woman can hope to attain are marriage and bearingchildren  as a result of this  women are likely to face more harassment and discriminationsimply because their gender is seen as less powerful  capable and credible  at the other end ofthe spectrum  patriarchy expects men to be physically   emotionally strong  dominatingbreadwinners and protectors of their family	episode_done:True
text:even in the 21st    century  patriarchy determines how parents in most families would regard each?	labels:of us   patriarchal thinking is taught widely through religion  and often  it has been taught to usthat god being male created men to rule the world and that it was the work of women to helpmen perform these tasks  to obey  and to always assume a subordinate rolemale violence against women   physical  verbal or emotional is a manifestation of patriarchythis phenomenon is rooted in the idea that men are endowed with the power and right tocontrol and if required  even discipline womenthis thinking is reinforced in every institution we encounter  be it homes where women don thave a say in decision making  at schools where children at a tender age are taught genderappropriate behavior  in our villages and at work where you will find more male leaders thanwomen or the communities we live in  wherein men and women are expected to abide bygender appropriate behavior	episode_done:True
text:why challenge patriarchy?	labels:as little girls  adolescents or grown women  have we ever experienced a state of absolute	episode_done:True
text:powerlessness? a time when we were reminded of our gendered place in our household? a	labels:time when a strong or powerful man has made us aware that if we did not obey the rules  we	episode_done:True
text:would be punished by him  the patriarchal father who was the ruler in our household? this is	labels:the way we were experientially schooled in the art of patriarchypatriarchy dictates that the natural state of gender relations is a dynamic of dominance andsubmission  it demands that those in power  men  as well as those who are controlled  women	episode_done:True
text:conform to a specific set of rules  while women are allowed to  show emotion  they must not?	labels:cross boundaries set for them  they are not allowed to act assertive or attempt to gainauthority  men on the other hand  are expected to suppress their feelingsthe problem is  by not allowing people to both simultaneously express their emotions andassert themselves   we limit their range of experiences and diminish their worth as humanbeingsremarks like  a decent girl won t roam around at nine o clock at night  or  housework andhousekeeping is for girls  not roaming in discos and bars at night  or  real men don t cry  arekhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       8    www  videovolunteers  orgall manifestations of patriarchal attitudes that control the way both men and women conductthemselves in societypatriarchal thinking shapes the values of our culture  we are socialized into this systemfemales as well as males  most of us learn patriarchal attitudes in our family of origin  and oftenthey are taught to us by our mothers  these attitudes are reinforced in schools and religiousinstitutions  some examples of manifestation of patriarchy in our lives arewomen are expected to move marital homes  adopt their husband s surnames and insome cultures even their namescommodification of women through dowry compromises the status of women in societyand makes them vulnerable to their spouses and also puts them in a position of beingtreated as household propertyrestrictions placed on mobility of womenmany families go to extreme lengths to avoid having a daughter in the first place as theyprefer a son for the following reasonsa son is seen as someone who can earn and care for his parents in their lateryears  while a daughter will get married and go awaya son can carry on the family name  while a daughter becomes part of herhusband s familygirls are seen as consumers  whereas boys are seen as producersmany families consider it a status symbol to have a son  and a point of shame tohave a daughterwomen are seen as homemakers and men as breadwinnerskhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       9    www  videovolunteers  orgpart i    everyday patriarchythe first part of this guide will help you make videos on the various aspects of patriarchy thataffect and control our daily lifefilming category   1gender   workbackground   our society refers to men as breadearners  and to women  as unpaid house workersthe productive work of women is often seen as anextension of their reproductive work  which is notrecognized as  real work    and likewiseundervalued  this is the reason women have longerworkdays than men globally  in the productivesphere too women often get paid much less for the same task that men doeven in jobs  whether they are governmental or corporate  most of the upper positions are heldby men  women are generally concentrated in the lower  supportive positions necessary tokeep this male leadership in power  thus  the power  prestige  and privileges of those inpositions of power  generally men  depend on the subordinate position of womenfurthermore  traditional gender roles  still widespread in society  are barriers to womenclimbing corporate ladders  current value systems largely support the notion that it is better forthe family if the father is employed and the mother takes care of the majority of parentalresponsibilities  unsupportive attitudes from family  friends  and co workers may have negativeeffects on women s work and their roles in societykhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       10    www  videovolunteers  orgvideo story idea   1household work   professional workghar ka kaam aur bahar ka kaammohan and nina reside in a remote village in chhattisgarh and are both agricultural wagelabourers  nina wakes up at 4am to start on the household tasks and mohan wakes up leisurelyat 7 am  right in time to eat something and listen to the radio  from 8 am to 11 am nina goes tofetch water from 3 miles away  cooks and cleans for her family and reaches to start her paidwork in the farm thereafter  mohan goes to farm around 10 am  she and mohan are allotted thesame piece of land to work on and carry out the same sort of tasks  nina and mohan get paidvery different amounts per hour of work  she has to go back home in time to cook and feed herfamily  once mohan is back from work  he has a peaceful evening with his friends playing cardgames and listening to the radio  it is quite late before nina falls asleep after her householdchoresfilming tips   you will have to follow both mohan and nina through a full day  frommorning to evening  you will need one full day with nina and one full day with mohanget plenty of b rolls of both performing different tasks through the day  every activitydone by nina and mohan are important to capture on video  shoot your interviewswhile they are performing these tasks instead of formal  sit down interview	episode_done:True
text:will this traditional role division ever change? should it change?	labels:these are not the exact questions for you to ask  these are to help you engage them in aconversation so that you can capture their notions and beliefs around role division based ongenderremember  this kind of story cannot be done without great b rolls  in fact  one can even dothis type of story only with visuals and no interviews or vokhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       11    www  videovolunteers  orgvideo story idea   2	episode_done:True
text:aurat ko naukri kyun?	labels:very often women are unable to keep a job unless they have supportive family  we all know ofwomen who have had to give up their job or career after marriage26 year old wahida has been working with a local ngo since she was 19  she is smartarticulate and committed to social issues  particularly to women s issues  her intervention inseveral cases of violence against women and young girls in her village has been crucial ingetting them relief  support  wahida was able to do all this till the time she was living with her	episode_done:True
text:do you need to meddle with other people s affairs? take care of your own household instead	labels:they ask  wahida has tried to reason with her in laws and husband to no avail  her husbandshakeel is otherwise a nice person  he s loving and caring  he believes that a woman s role isto take care of the house and family and that it s the  man s role to worry about the worldfilming tips   if you are a male cc  you should plan a video with shakeel as the maincharacter  our purpose of the video is not to judge shakeel or tell him he s wrong  ourpurpose is to give shakeel an opportunity to explain his position  his beliefs  todismantle patriarchy it is extremely important for all of us to understand what meaningit holds for those around us  shakeel s story will help us understand this  approach shakeelwith an open mind  it s important that you get a lot of general b roll of shakeel doing things in	episode_done:True
text:many women? was it okay for her parents to let her work before marriage?	labels:if you are a woman cc  you can plan a video with wahida as the central character  if you do soit is very important that you make sure that her situation in the house is not compromisedmeaning  she should not be in trouble for speaking her mind  explain to her that you can hide	episode_done:True
text:her face while filming her  your conversation with her should reveal how she feels about this?	labels:tradition of where women are made to give up a job after marriage  does she think this is right	episode_done:True
text:when she wants to have a career? what needs to change in society?	labels:if you are lucky  maybe both shakeel and wahida will agree to be in your film  if that s the caseyou can explore both the things described above in one storykhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       12    www  videovolunteers  orgfilming category   2patriarchy at homevideo story idea   3training kids for gendered rolespitrusatta ki tyarirabia is 11 years old  she is smart and intelligent  she takes care of her 4 year old sister whenher parents are out working in the farm  she has a younger brother razak who is 8  they bothgo to school but razak gets to go everyday and rabia often has to stay back home to cookclean and take care of the baby sister  rabia s mother wakes up at 5am  she wakes up at6am  her father and razak wakes up at 7 30am  rabia s day starts with walking a kilometer tothe water point with three small pots  two on her head and one on her waist  she often has tomake 4 to 5 trips in the morning  if the line is too big  she will miss school  she has to sweepthe yard  help her mom cook and feed the baby  razak wakes up and runs off to be with hisfriends or does his homeworkfilming tips   this kind of story must be common in your places  if you find a storylike this  you can plan your video  you will need to spend three full days with rabiaand razak  the first day you don t shoot but you just observe what these kids do and	episode_done:True
text:take mental notes of how their lives are different  you also use that day to speak to?	labels:their parents and get their consenton the second day you film one kid and other kid on the third day  film everything they do in a	episode_done:True
text:day  you will be able to tell a great visual story of how girls and boys are trained for different?	labels:roles within the home  for a story like this  you don t even need to have a voice over or a p2c	episode_done:True
text:you can ask razak and rabia why razak does not have to fetch water or cook or clean  ask?	labels:rabia if she misses play time with her friends and if she has to miss school because ofhousework  ask both of them what they would like to be when they grow up so that our	episode_done:True
text:why razak is not being taught to cook and clean  ask razak and rabia the same question?	labels:remember  that to film a story like this you need to spend time with the family  you cannot filmthese types of stories by merely asking them a prepared set of questions  the gender based	episode_done:True
text:roles and discrimination differences need to be shown to our audiences and not told?	labels:if you have good visuals and in depth and conversational interviews  you can make two videosfrom this footage  one video on rabia and one on razak  or the editors can make one longerfilm combining the twokhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       13    www  videovolunteers  orgvideo story idea   4sex selection son preference   daughter aversionbackground   while sex determination has been banned by the indian governmentit does not stop families from going to great lengths to find out anyway  not only are thereplenty of scanning centres that reveal this information  many of the wealthier families fly thepregnant mother to neighbouring countries where sex determination is legal  to find out thegender of the babythe practice of sex selective abortion is rooted in patriarchy   wherein women are consideredweaker  inferior to men and are unwanted	episode_done:True
text:what impact does sex selection have on the sex ratio?	labels:sex ratio refers to ratio of females to males in a given region  practices like sex selectiveabortion and female infanticide  killing a baby girl after she is born  have had an adverse effecton the sex ratio of a nation and gives rise to further social evilsas per the  indian census 2011  report  the sex ratio of india  females per 1000 males  is asfollowsindia s average sex ratio   943rural sex ratio    946             state with highest female sex ratio    kerala 1058urban sex ratio    900             state with lowest female sex ratio                haryana 861	episode_done:True
text:what are the long term impacts of sex selective abortion?	labels:the most important impact of sex selective abortion is the skewed ratio it gives rise to  thedearth of females leads to other complications like female trafficking  kidnappings and anincrease in assault and rape against womenkirpal ojha and his wife meena live in a small village of madhya pradesh  meena died leavingkirpal with their four daughters aged 5  9  10 and 12  with so many daughters and a lack ofaccess to medical treatment only one of kirpal s daughters has survived  neighbours claimthat kirpal s second daughter died after the mother in law stuffed tobacco in the baby smouthfilming tips    this kind of story can be seen everywhere because we know thataround 500 000 female fetuses are aborted every year  if you find a story like thisyou can plan a video to understand more on the issue  you could spend some timewith individual members of the family and in particular the mothers in law to ask themwhat factors led them to make the decisions that they made and whether having a girl child is	episode_done:True
text:really that much of a burden since they are also women?	labels:khel badal  dismantle patriarchy       14    www  videovolunteers  orgyou could also go and talk to health care providers in the area to understand their practices	episode_done:True
text:camera they may not admit to this as it is illegal in india  so be careful as to how you would?	labels:approach this aspect of the researchvideo story idea   5man in the house  male outsideghar me insan  bahar mardsometimes you come across a story like this  kabir and his wife kamla s second baby is twomonths old  at home kabir is extremely helpful   he helps his wife nurse  take care of the	episode_done:True
text:newborn  change nappies  clean up  however  when they go out to visit or stay at a relative s?	labels:house  his behaviour changes  he does not do any of the things that he does at home and onlyplays with his baby  despite his wife s annoyancefilming tips   it will be very interesting to have kabir  and not kamla  as the maincharacter of your video  spend a whole day or two with the young family  get them toknow well and then do the filming  it s extremely crucial for you to capture the variousmoments of kabir and his child  get great b rolls of everything he does  close ups ofkabir  his child is important  the visuals should tell us the love and bonding of the father andthe childyour conversation with kabir should be about his changed behaviour inside the house and	episode_done:True
text:normal? this is your opportunity to understand and capture how men are trained and	labels:conditioned for a certain role in a certain wayyou may ask kabir some of the questions from the list belowwhen you first learnt that you were pregnant  what were your feelings and who all did you	episode_done:True
text:why are husbands so shy to talk about pregnancy or child care?	labels:khel badal  dismantle patriarchy       15    www  videovolunteers  orgfilming category   3patriarchy in community	episode_done:True
text:samaaj   society constructs gender roles and dictates how men and women are supposed to?	labels:behave and respond to situationsvideo story idea   6be a manmard banmost boys and men in their childhood have heard the phrase  mard ban  or  ladkiyon ke tarah	episode_done:True
text:us and teach us how we must behave as a boy or man  boys are also  taught  what kind of?	labels:work or tasks they are supposed to do and what tasks they are not required to do  this sexistdivision of work is either told to us or we see and learn  it is then difficult for us to unlearn thisthis perpetuates discriminationthis video should capture all these differences of allowed and not allowedfilming tips    identify and choose three characters  1  a 7 to 10 year old boy  2  a 14to 18 year old boy  and 3  a 25 year  and above  old manask each one them the following questions	episode_done:True
text:shooting the brolls for this is very important  here s one idea of how you can shoot interesting?	labels:brollsif the answer for question 1 is  riding a bicycle   then film your character riding a bicycle  if theanswer is  climbing a tree   then film your character climbing a treeif the answer to question 2 is  washing clothes   then film your character sitting standing nextto a woman washing clothes  if the answer is  making rotis   then film your character watchinga woman or girl making rotis or your character eating rotiif the answer to question 3 is  ploughing the farm   then film your character ploughing thefarmkhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       16    www  videovolunteers  orgvideo story idea   7	episode_done:True
text:ladka hai ya ladki?	labels:from a tender age  children are taught gender appropriate behaviour  mannerisms and waysin which they should express themselves  for example  girls should speak softly whereas boysare expected to speak out loud and with confidence  a real man laughs boisterously andheartily  whereas women giggle  these norms extend to the way men and women sit  standrun  dance etcchildren and adults who don t conform to these set norms of gender appropriate behaviour aresubject to teasing  taunting  bullying and berating  for example   a boy who is shy  will be toldladki ki tarah mat sharma   a girl who asks too many questions or speaks her mind will bereprimanded for doing sofilming tips	episode_done:True
text:1  to explore how norms of gender appropriate behaviour and mannerisms are?	labels:imbibed and play out in everyday expression  pick three boys and three girlschildren between 10 and 15 would be ideal2  ask each child to do the following actions on cameraa  laugh like a man and laugh like a woman  film this by framing a mid shotof each characterb  cry like a woman and cry like a man  film this by framing a mid shot ofeach characterc  stand like a man and stand like a woman  film this by framing a long shotof each characterd  sit like a man and sit like a woman  film this by framing a long shot ofeach charactere  dance like a man and dance like a woman  film this by framing a longshot of each character3  it will be good to do this in a space where the children are most comfortable toact this out  you may want to film with boys and girls separately  if they feel morecomfortable that way4  you can keep an extra duppata or scarf with you just in case a child wants touse it as a saree or turban5  this is an entirely visual video so getting great shots is extremely importantkhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       17    www  videovolunteers  orgvideo story idea   8societal rulessamaj ke bandhanthere are many things the society  approves  and  forbids  men and women to do  interestinglythe list of  dos and don ts  are different for men and women  often the list of  don ts  for women	episode_done:True
text:will be much longer  how do we make a video about this? here s one way to do it	labels:ask the following four questions to 9 people	episode_done:True
text:q1   according to the rules of society  what can a man do and what is forbidden for him?	labels:q2   according to the rules of society  what can a woman do and what is forbidden for	episode_done:True
text:purush ko saman darja hona chahiye?	labels:q4   the child marriage prohibition act  2006 prescribes differential marriageable agesfor women  18 years  and men  21 years   girls and boys can vote at 18  contest elections	episode_done:True
text:differential ages for marriage? why?	labels:the 9 people you should ask these questions to1  elderly woman2  elderly man3  married woman4  married man5  adolescent unmarried girl  12 to 16 years6  adolescent unmarried boy  12 to 16 years7  child  girl  6 to 8 years old8  child  boy  6 to 8 years old9  someone in uniform  postman  policeman  policewoman  bus conductor  bus driver  firebrigade  ambulance driverinterview of someone in uniform will be interesting visually and also because people in uniformsort of denote the  system   for each interviewer you should have at least 5 b rolls thatestablishes their work profession  please make a sequencethe editors will cut footage from several ccs into one  vox pop  video  this video will be veryuseful in kick starting discussion around patriarchykhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       18    www  videovolunteers  orgvideo story idea   9widow and widowerhere are some questions for all of us to pondera woman whose husband is dead is called a widow  what do we call a man whose wife	episode_done:True
text:program ?	labels:asha and sunil are both in their late forties and live in the same village  asha s husbandsuccumbed to tb two years ago while sunil s wife died in a road mishap a year agosince her husband s death asha s life has turned upside down  she struggles to eke out aliving and raise her children  she is restricted to her house  she stares at a bleak future  societydoes not give her a chance to overcome her grief and start over in life  it s highly unlikely thatasha will get the share of her husband s property so she is compelled to continue living withher husband s parents and brothers  marrying again is not even an option for asha   what will	episode_done:True
text:loneliness   why wouldn t society give me a chance to find companionship again?  she asks	labels:with a palpable rage in her voicesunil s mother has struggled to take care of his children since his wife passed away  his familymembers have advised him to marry again and he will be married this yearfilming tips   like in other cases  it is extremely important to get informed consentfrom your central characters and spend at least a day with them before shooting andget to know them well  give them  particularly asha  the option of concealing theiridentities  capture asha s life visually by filming all the activities she does  cookingcleaning  readying her kids  reading a newspaper etc  your conversation with her is not about	episode_done:True
text:how her husband died and the details around it  but about how she is coping in day to day life?	labels:what her wishes and hopes for the future are  more importantly  your attempt should be to letthe audience know what asha feels about being a widow  whether women should be able to	episode_done:True
text:remarry or not  why widowed men can remarry and not women  why does she think the society?	labels:is so scared of widows remarrying  etcif your main character is sunil  it is extremely important to spend time with him and get as manyb rolls as possible of him doing what he does  remember to shoot full sequences and not justkhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       19    www  videovolunteers  org	episode_done:True
text:one shot of each activity  ask him similar questions  why is he thinking of remarriage  the?	labels:importance of a mother in a child s life  importance of a father in a child s life  if a father is	episode_done:True
text:the society have different rules for men and women? should the rules be different?	labels:khel badal  dismantle patriarchy       20    www  videovolunteers  orgfilming category   4patriarchy taught in schoolvideo story idea   10patriarchy taught in schoolit is not  unfortunately  difficult to see patriarchy and discrimination reinforced in our educationsystems and schools  one simple video you can make is on the  educational charts  that are onthe walls of most schools  typically you will see a chart that explains various occupations andprofessions  a chart that has pictures of various artisans  a health chart that lays out goodhygiene practices etc  you will see that most of these charts are sexist  the occupation chartswill invariably have men as driver  doctor  engineer  carpenter etc while the nurse and teacherwill be women  you will also see that most of the images are malefilming tips   if you come across a chart like this  you should take visuals of thischart from various angles and in various shot sizes  take close ups of details of thechart  take the poster down and use it as a discussion tool with a small group of	episode_done:True
text:images  is there any profession that a woman cannot do? explore what these kids want to be	labels:when they grown up  see if you get stereotypical answers to this  girls saying they want tobecome teachers and nurses and doctors  and the boys articulating more options   explore	episode_done:True
text:this video could give us a chilling account of how we have internalized these sexist and?	labels:discriminatory images and normalized itvideo story idea   11	episode_done:True
text:who s behind girls dropping out of school?	labels:it is quite common in our villages to see girls dropping out of school more than boys  thisphenomenon is aggravated when the village does not have a high school and students arerequired to travel longer distances to another town or village to attend school  parentspressured by society or simply because they are afraid for their girls  safety  take their girls outkhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       21    www  videovolunteers  orgof school  sometimes girls like mary have to drop out of school so that they can take care oftheir younger sibling or support their parent s incomemary is 12 years old and is the second of her four siblings  her older brother victor  14  goes toschool  while she has dropped out of school to take care of her younger siblings  mary sparents are both daily wage earners and have to leave for work early  mary cooks for all hersiblings  feeds the younger ones and looks after them all day  victor goes to school on hisbicycle	episode_done:True
text:common in your village? you can make a video to find out what the reasons behind	labels:dropping out are  mary had to drop out to take care of her siblings  but there can beseveral other reasons  like   lack of toilets at school  parents fear for girls safetysocietal pressure on parents to keep  young woman at home  etc	episode_done:True
text:in a story like this it s important to capture two things  1  how mary  the girl s  life is  she is?	labels:forced to play a grown up s role and is being trained for being a mother  in the process oftaking care of her siblings  this is what is expected by our traditional society  2  victor is notaffected by this and is not expected to take care of his siblings and he is being trained for histraditional role of  bread earner	episode_done:True
text:riding it to school  ask mary if she ever rides it around? if she does  film her riding it  if she	labels:doesn t ask her if she would like to learn  and ask victor if he would teach her  these kind ofset ups will help you explore their relationship and also help you get into the issue of mobilityand what young children think of it	episode_done:True
text:you may also want to interview the parents to understand their mindset and how they chose?	labels:their son s education and career over their daughter skhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       22    www  videovolunteers  orgfilming category   5patriarchy sanctioned by cultureit s our culture    yeh to parampara haiwhile religions may teach equality between people  in practice women usually have asubordinate role and may be excluded altogether from the religious hierarchy and certainreligious rituals  religion nevertheless holds out the promise of equality and justice  and this is	episode_done:True
text:and priests? different cultural practices  social customs  traditions and rituals too restrict	labels:control and exclude women in more ways than one  there are many culturally sanctionedpractices   such as genital mutilation  lack of education for girls  preferential feeding of boysearly marriage of girl child  untouchability during menstruation   which damage women and	episode_done:True
text:make their lives more difficult and painful  culture  however  like religion  can also be the?	labels:source of cohesion and solidarity amongst women  and amongst women and menvideo story idea   12child marriagegirl child perceived as an economic burdenlata and shekhar have 4 children   3 girls and the youngest  is a boy  13 year old sheena is the	episode_done:True
text:eldest of the four children  she is ambitious and wants to study further  however  the couple?	labels:cannot support her education and don t see the point in educating her  unable to bear thefinancial costs of raising four children  the couple has decided to marry off sheenafilming tips1  while making such a video you should interview both the parents as well as thegirl  in your interview with the parents ask them what prompted the decision of	episode_done:True
text:the dangers of marrying her off at time when she might not be ready for it?	labels:2  child marriage is often also connected with dowry   in some cultures the dowryprice increases with the age of the bride  you should ask them whether theyhave paid dowry and whether dowry increasing with age is the reason they aregetting their daughter marriedkhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       23    www  videovolunteers  org3  male ccs should explore these things about child marriage with a male guardianfather brother uncle etc	episode_done:True
text:prohibiting child marriage?	labels:5  the girl might not speak openly  engage her in a conversation and don t pushher to speak  it is okay if she doesn t speak up  her inability to answer or answerby studied confused silence is important for the filmvideo story idea   13shame  stigma   silence around menstruation	episode_done:True
text:women rarely talk about menstruation in front of male members of the family or society? why	labels:does a chemist wrap a packet of sanitary napkins in a black polythene bag or a newspaper  as	episode_done:True
text:have you ever stopped to think why we are so ashamed of a natural bodily process? why is	labels:menstruation   a matter of women s health   shrouded in silence   stigma  which in turn	episode_done:True
text:propagate misconceptions and spread of misinformation around it?	labels:aditi gupta was 11 years old when the sight of her bloodstained underwear sent her into a tizzyof confusion  shock and panic  after she was offered a quick solution   a cloth   as womenacross generations in her family had been using  an awkward celebration of her  womanhood	episode_done:True
text:followed   but what did it really mean?  wondered aditi	labels:through her early teens  every time she menstruated  it made her  impure   she could not visitthe temple  play or even speak of it  even if she did talk to someone   definitely not a man   ithad to be in hushed tonesat 15  aditi was introduced to sanitary napkins  every time an advertisement of the productplayed on television  whoever held the remote  instinctively switched the channel  when sheasked a chemist for them  he hurriedly wrapped them in a newspaper or in black polythenebag  as if it were contraband  even when she used a cloth  there was a designated spot  awayfrom male gaze  selected by the women of the house to dry their menstrual clothskhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       24    www  videovolunteers  org	episode_done:True
text:aditi began to understand why most women in her family used cloth instead of sanitary napkins?	labels:it was simply embarrassing to ask for itfilming tips   most women will be able to identify with aditi s experience  some ofyou may have experienced being asked not to enter the kitchen or temples whilemenstruating  if you haven t experienced this yourself  we re sure you knowsomebody who has  you can interview both men and women for this film  you canalso interview one of the twoif you are a female cc  this is a film where you can also be a character  in this case you mightneed to train a family member or a friend to film youif you have found a character for your film  it might be difficult to get your interviewee talkingsince menstruation is shrouded in shame and silence  you must spend time getting to knowthe character in your video  have a conversation with the interviewee and not a rapid fire ofquestion and answers  points to cover in your conversation and in camera interview areif your interviewee is a woman you can ask the following questions	episode_done:True
text:i  were you aware of what was happening to your body?were you informed	labels:about it by family members friends teacher anganwadi worker what were you	episode_done:True
text:iii  was the conversation symbolic or codified? what were you told? upon	labels:reaching puberty  it is common that girls are told things like   tu ab toh	episode_done:True
text:badi sayaani ho gayi hai?  we d like to know about the language used to	labels:convey the message  it will be interesting to understand if the message wassymbolic codified	episode_done:True
text:reason?	labels:vii  there is a possibility that your interviewee has faced restrictions in the past butdoesn t anymore  if this is the case  then this becomes a story of transition  in	episode_done:True
text:viii  do you talk about menstruation to male members in the family?	labels:it will also be interesting to interview men  you can ask them	episode_done:True
text:you? what did they say?	labels:khel badal  dismantle patriarchy       25    www  videovolunteers  org	episode_done:True
text:why?	labels:video story idea   14symbols of marriagesushma bhadu of dhani miyan khan village wore a ghunghat for 32 years and lived the life of atypical haryanvi bahu satisfying the needs of her husband and her three children  sheperformed all her duties well at home as well as went out for work sushma dropped out ofschool in the 7th    grade but was always interested in improving the welfare of the communityshe lived inone day sushma informed her husband bhagwan das that the ghunghat was hindering herwork and in the presence of women panchayat members  girl students and anganwadi workersshe discarded the veil  she said  it no longer works for me  holds me back and stops me fromfully participating in my family  or things that concern our village  but most importantly  it robsme of my identity as a person  many of the women followed suit and set aside their veils toodas is very proud of what his wife does as she is the sarpanch of the village and is involved in	episode_done:True
text:many sanitation and other projects to better the surroundings  however  the men from the?	labels:neighbouring villages mock the women of dhani miyan khan saying   ab to tumhe chhoot milgay ihai   kuchh bhi kar sakti hoif ghunghat or purdah system prevails in your community  are you likely to see a	episode_done:True
text:scenario such as this? how many women who are uneducated or school dropouts like	labels:bhadu have the guts to stand up to their husbands and family to say and act upon	episode_done:True
text:and help them create their own identity?	labels:filming tips   while ghunghat is a symbol of marriage in the hindu community  hijab burqadon t necessarily symbolise marriage  if your story focuses on ghunghat or purdah spend timewith the character and get b rolls of her performing different tasks with her ghunghat purdahin the interview you can ask her	episode_done:True
text:do you think it is necessary for women to follow it? why why not?	labels:khel badal  dismantle patriarchy       26    www  videovolunteers  orgif you are interested in exploring symbols of marriage  you can get several b rolls of symbols ofmarriage	episode_done:True
text:b rolls of the actual wedding  this  however  is not a must?	labels:b rolls of the bride and groom a few weeks after the weddingwhile getting the above b rolls you need to remember that symbols of marriage arevisible on every part of the body from head to toe   sindoor  maathe ka sindoor  nathniface tattoos  mangal sutra   bangles of specific colour material  waist bands or kamar	episode_done:True
text:men and women  can one tell a man is married visually?	labels:you can interview the bride and ask her	episode_done:True
text:whose name will your children bear? if she says her husband s ask her how she feels	labels:about that	episode_done:True
text:have to do that?	labels:you can also do an interview with men on similar linesvideo story idea   15women are witches  men are witch doctorsaurat dayan aur mard ojhawitch hunting is a cultural practice perpetrated against women  the common labelss used forwomen who are labelsed as a witch s are dayan  bhootani  victims are also referred to asharamjaadi  baapchodi  behaya  besharam  randi  kulachhini  kutiya  beta khauki  son eateretc the reasons for calling a witch range from an immediate triggering event like bad crop  asnake drinking milk  a missing object from a ritual site or actual or alleged illnesses  rangingfrom stomach aches  fever  paralysis  mental problems including hysteria  skin eruptions  jointpains etc    inability to conceive a child  deaths due to illness or even murders  committed bysomeone else  and suicidekhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       27    www  videovolunteers  orgsingle women  which includes widows with productive resources  economic resources orproperty  women who transgress social authority and mores  women with exceptional physicalattributes  etc have largely been seen as branded as witch and at the receiving end of violencethat this practice perpetuates  although it draws upon superstition witch hunting is driven bymaterial conflicts which get camouflaged by the superstitionwitch doctors  men   are called upon to undo the evil influences applied to a man or woman bya witch  womanthree states jharkhand  bihar and chhattisgarh have specific laws against witchhunts chhattisgarh s tonahi pratadna nivaran act of 2005  bihar s prevention of witch	episode_done:True
text:dayan  practices act  1999  and in jharkhand  the witchcraft prevention act  2001  however?	labels:cases of witch hunting are reported from 9 other states    haryana  orissa  west bengalmadhya pradesh  rajasthan  andhra pradesh  gujarat  maharashtra and assam	episode_done:True
text:filming tips   have you seen or heard of such instances in your village? in this story	labels:you need to chronicle the reasons behind this practice and belief	episode_done:True
text:1   if your character is a woman branded as a witch  explore real reason why she?	labels:was is branded as a witch  don t focus on the incident itself it is okay to alsointerview son daughter or somebody associated with her2  if she was killed it is crucial to interview the surviving members of her family andask them what they thought were the real reasons behind the ostracisation	episode_done:True
text:thinks a woman turns into a witch? are some women born that way? how should	labels:witches be dealt with  to find this character in your village  you need to ask	episode_done:True
text:who in the village declares a woman as a witch? typically could be	labels:spiritual religious leader	episode_done:True
text:witch? does she start flying? in this interview just let the character talk  it will be	labels:interesting to hear what he has to sayvideo story idea   16	episode_done:True
text:why are religious leaders mostly men? why not women	labels:priests   padris   mullahs	episode_done:True
text:become priests? he replied   how can a woman who has menstrual cycles every month be	labels:khel badal  dismantle patriarchy       28    www  videovolunteers  org	episode_done:True
text:considered pure to conduct holy rituals?  neeta  who had never seen a woman pujari before	labels:could not figure what was so impure and unholy about her body and the fact that shemenstruated every month  she decided to write to a school she had heard about that trainedwomen to conduct rituals  prayers for initiation  engagement  marriage  conversionhousewarming  ancestor worship and last rites  today neeta is training to be a pujari and willsoon join the existing group of 1600 women priests in indiawomen priests are usually sidelined even today  nobody gives them importance   but despiteopposition  ridicule and social boycott from some male priests  women should continue tofollow their pathsome male clergy  who are performing rituals in the traditional ways  worry about their sourceof income as this is their bread and butter some others say   you face many complex questionsas a hindu priest  which women often can t answer because they only get superficial trainingand i think people are being fooled when so called women priests shorten religious rituals  it smore like entertainment  it gives priesthood a bad namefilming tips1  planning a video around this would be very interesting  such a video can alsofocus on female padris or mullahs  do you know a woman in your village who is	episode_done:True
text:are the perceptions of the community members on this issue?	labels:2  you can also interview a male priest  you can ask him whether he thinks women	episode_done:True
text:what fate awaits humankind if the women become religious?	labels:3  get lots of b rolls of the religious space  as well as sequences of that characterkhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       29    www  videovolunteers  orgfilming category  6women and political participation	episode_done:True
text:many women representatives are part of this? merely 8 which is about 10   this is as of july	labels:2016	episode_done:True
text:did you know that 50  seats in all panchayati raj institutions are reserved for women?	labels:sadly  despite the numerical strength the role of women has been underplayed and thedevelopmental efforts by the government have only ensured their further marginalization  infact  tribal women notwithstanding the constitutional and legal safeguards are still struggling forequality of status and equality of participation in the development processvideo story idea   17being a woman sarpanch in indiakamla is a tribal woman who had been educated by her family  she was always the woman tospeak up for other women in the village and hence was elected as the president of the villagesome of the upper caste villagers did not cooperate and recognize her as head of the villagebecause of her caste and also because of her gender  female   a woman was elected as thevillage head for the first time in the history of the village where usually people belonging to theupper caste were elected as village heads in the gram panchayat electionskamla improved her speaking skills and awareness by visiting government offices and wassuccessful in getting funds for village development  she interacted with the villagers andpersonally visited the houses of opposition party leaders and upper caste people to seek theirguidance  cooperation and suggestions to get more funds for village development  she alsodeveloped a good rapport with all the villagers including the dalit communityfilming tips	episode_done:True
text:1  document kamla s work as a sarpanch  remember that showing her work?	labels:brolls  are as important as her interview2  if kamla also has to do household work  make sure you have complete brolls ofthat too  remember to film sequences3  kamla s interactions with other panchayat members is important to capturekhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       30    www  videovolunteers  org4  during interviewing her  it is important to know her journey of being a womansarpanch  but we also want to know her opinion and experience on questionslike	episode_done:True
text:b  why are husbands  family members and the community hesitant in?	labels:seeing women as leaders	episode_done:True
text:c  what are the qualities of a good leader or a good sarpanch?	labels:d  what message do you want give to other women sarpanch and wardmembers who are not active and let their male members carry out their	episode_done:True
text:work?	labels:5  you can also make a video on a woman who has become sarpanch or wardmember through the reserved category   but remains a proxy for her husband  ifthe husband is doing all the work then film him doing the work  film her doinghousehold work or farm work or whatever else she does  during the	episode_done:True
text:member and why she decided to stand for election etc  if the husband does all?	labels:the talking  don t stop him  you film him talking and film her quietly listening  askthe woman   when do you think you will be able to handle things on your own	episode_done:True
text:panchayat related work?	labels:6  you can also make a video on a woman panchayat ward member who worksindependently without any interference from her husbandkhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       31    www  videovolunteers  orgfilming category   7construction of beautythe oppression of  gori chitti   lambe baal  bahut moti ya naati nahi  pati	episode_done:True
text:se lambi patni?  kabhi nahi	labels:video story idea   18the construction of beauty is subjectively defined from one culture to another  itmanifests itself in popular culture as well as day to day life  creating body images andan aspiration to fit into broader definitions of beauty  these definitions in themainstream discourse are more often than not a point of view of upper caste class mentake for example the definition of an ideal bride  across matrimonial ads or even in day to day	episode_done:True
text:discourse  you probably have heard how an ideal bride is one who is  fair  has long hair  plump?	labels:is okay   fat isn t  not too short  definitely not taller than her male companion  while severalbrands selling fairness products capitalize on the popular construct of beauty commonly	episode_done:True
text:created   an aspiration to be fair  the fact that these sell in huge numbers shows that there is a?	labels:demand for these products  consumers are trapped in and feel pressurized to fit into theconventional definitions of beautyfilming tips	episode_done:True
text:1  to capture how beauty is constructed in our minds you can interview different people?	labels:a  7 year old girl and boyb  14   19 year old girl and boyc  20   25 year old girl and boyd  26 40 year oldse  40 years old and above2  you can ask them the following questionsa  describe a  beautiful  womanb   handsome  man	episode_done:True
text:c  can the bride be taller than the groom?	labels:d  qualities of ideal mane  ideal woman3  get b rolls of fairness cream other beauty product billboards or ads in publicplaces newspaper  behind auto rickshaw trucks  look for quotes pictures posters inpublic spaces that comment on beauty  reinforce or break stereotypes of beautykhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       32    www  videovolunteers  orgfilming category   8women   public spacesvideo story idea   19women and public spaceswhile we talk about equal wage inheritance  property rights for women  we rarely questionrestrictions on mobility of women across public spaces  women are not seen in and are oftenapprehensive of embracing public spaces  especially after dark due restrictions imposed byfamilies  by hostels and a patriarchal which infers that a woman who is out on her own afterdark is  loose    available  or a  slut   and  if a woman  must go out on her own after dark  shemust be accompanied by a manhave you as men and women ever wondered  what s wrong with women hanging out dhabas	episode_done:True
text:play  gilli danda on the streets?	labels:parents worry their daughters will be labelsed by society  hostels say safety of women is theirconcern and oh  then there is the moral police who say    yeh humaare sanskriti mein nahi hai	episode_done:True
text:we must ask here   kya hai jo humaare sanskriti mein nahi hai aur kyun?	labels:citing  safety of women  as the main reason for restrictions placed on women s mobilityindirectly puts the onus of being safe on women  which means  a woman who has faced anyform of sexual violence  is likely to be blamed for it  women are told to be safe and men toprotect them  women are often treated as assets that need to be fiercely protectedin a lot of households  wanting a woman back home before 7pm is also linked to theirhousehold workfilming tips   this will be a visual film  so plenty of brolls  the idea is to build avisual montage of rural and semi urban public spaces to bring home the point thatmost public spaces are male dominated  for this you need to spend time filming atdifferent public spaces at different times of the day to make your video  examples ofwhere you can do the filming	episode_done:True
text:chowks?	labels:haat bazaarkhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       33    www  videovolunteers  orgbus standsdistrict collector officeblock officegovernment hospitalsfamous or busy temples in your areapicnic spots in your arearemember to shoot establishing shots  mahol shots  and close ups tooyou will see that places like collector office  block office etc will have less women and thehaat and temples have more women  capture this visuallyinterview men and women on questions arising out of your observations  like	episode_done:True
text:what needs to happen or change for women to feel fearless about moving around?	labels:khel badal  dismantle patriarchy       34    www  videovolunteers  orgfilming category   9sexuality    bodily integrityphrases like  ek aurat ke shareer pe uske pati ka adhikar are common parlance  this is amanifestation of patriarchy   it teaches men that women are their assets   assets need to becontrolled    tells men that they have a right to control women s bodies and sexuality  thereare cases where men coax their wives into sexual intercourse or a sexual act they might not	episode_done:True
text:like  in such cases men say  how can she refuse? uske shareer pe mera haq hai  this	labels:manifestation of patriarchy is also pervasive in the law in india which does not recognizemarital rape as an offence  further  in many cases women don t have a say in    whether tohave a child or not  whether to undergo an abortion or not  where they want to deliver   athome or at a hospital  choosing a method of family planning  men have the autonomy to	episode_done:True
text:choose their partners  however  if a woman does so  it is frowned upon?	labels:video story idea   20bodily integrityshalini had her first baby three years ago and did not want to have any more children  whenshe told her husband  kabir and in laws so  they were infuriated  despite repeated requestsher husband refused to use condoms  he hated them  shalini was pregnant once again within	episode_done:True
text:a year of her first pregnancy  she wanted to undergo an abortion  however her in laws did not?	labels:let her  after her second baby was born  shalini pleaded that her husband use condoms orundergo a vasectomy  instead  kabir forced shalini to undergo sterilization which eventuallyled to health complicationsfilming tips	episode_done:True
text:shalini   kabir can both be characters in your film  however  you needn t  feel?	labels:compelled to look for characters who share the exact dynamic or reproductive	episode_done:True
text:health history  you can interview any married couple to understand how?	labels:patriarchy has an impact on choice of contraception  women s reproductivehealth and decision making around it	episode_done:True
text:it is okay if you can get only one of them to talk on camera   however  having?	labels:both male and female perspectives in your film will make your story moreroundedif both have agreed to be interviewed  schedule interviews on different daysand  talk to them on a one on one basis  through your conversation you couldask the following questionskhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       35    www  videovolunteers  org	episode_done:True
text:choice? and  what went into making that choice?	labels:video story idea   21	episode_done:True
text:should marital rape be illegal?	labels:rape is a type of sexual assault usually involving sexual intercourse or any other form ofpenetration perpetrated against a person without the person s consentunder section 375 of the indian penal code   a      man is said to commit  rape  if he     apenetrates his penis  to any extent  into the vagina  mouth  urethra or anus of a woman ormakes her to do so with him or any other person  or  b  inserts  to any extent  any object or apart of the body  not being the penis  into the vagina  the urethra or anus of a woman or makesher to do so with him or any other person  or  c  manipulates any part of the body of a womanso as to cause penetration into the vagina  urethra  anus or any part of body of such woman ormakes her to do so with him or any other person  or  d  applies his mouth to the vagina  anusurethra of a woman or makes her to do so with him or any other person  under thecircumstances falling under any of the following seven descriptionsfirstly    against her willsecondly     without her consentthirdly     with her consent  when her consent has been obtained by putting her orany person in whom she is interested  in fear of death or of hurtfourthly     with her consent  when the man knows that he is not her husband and thather consent is given because she believes that he is another man to whom she is orbelieves herself to be lawfully marriedfifthly    with her consent when  at the time of giving such consent  by reason ofunsoundness of mind or intoxication or the administration by him personally or throughanother of any stupefying or unwholesome substance  she is unable to understand thenature and consequences of that to which she gives consentsixthly     with or without her consent  when she is under eighteen years of ageseventhly     when she is unable to communicate consentexplanation 1   for the purposes of this section   vagina  shall also include labia majorakhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       36    www  videovolunteers  orgexplanation 2   consent means an unequivocal voluntary agreement when the woman bywords  gestures or any form of verbal or non verbal communication  communicates willingnessto participate in the specific sexual actprovided that a woman who does not physically resist to the act of penetration shall  not  bythe reason of  only that fact  be regarded as consenting to the sexual activityexceptions1  a medical procedure or intervention shall not constitute rape2   sexual intercourse or sexual acts by a man with his own wife  the wife not being underfifteen years of age  is not rapethe second exception is important to understand  it means that if a husband rapes his wife it acrime only if the wife is under 15 years of age  but  if the wife is above 15 years of age rape byhusband is not a crimeeven though rape laws were amended in 2013 after the nirbhaya rape case in delhi  thelawmakers did not find it important to make marital rape a crime	episode_done:True
text:how do you feel about it? why do you think this particular exception continues to exist?	labels:make a video on this by gathering people s opinion about thisfilming tips   interview 10 married men and 10 married women and ask them thefollowing questions  film this in the vox pop style by framing a mid shot of eachcharacter	episode_done:True
text:question 1   is it a crime for a husband to rape his wife?	labels:if the answer you get is  yes  or  i don t know   go to question 2 andthen 4if the answer you get is  no   go to question 3 and then 4	episode_done:True
text:question 4   should marital rape be made a crime?	labels:after each person s interview remember to ask their names and village namesyou can do all interviews in the same village but don t interview all 10 women or all 10 menfrom the same location  make sure you are interviewing a variety of men and women  so  go todifferent hamlets or communities in the villagekhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       37    www  videovolunteers  org	episode_done:True
text:brolls   since this is a vox pop style filming brolls for each character is not needed  however?	labels:do take general brolls of the village  establish the village with nice and steady shotsremember to give film at least 10 different things that will establish the village  also rememberthat close ups and mid shots are important too  so  please don t film everything in long shotor establishing shotnote  if you come across a case of marital rape  refer to the section on marital rape in part iiof this guidekhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       38    www  videovolunteers  orgfilming category   10breaking stereotypesvideo story idea   22dhanlaxmi the taxi drivertaxiwali dhanlaxmisometimes we come across women who have taken up a profession that is traditionallydominated by men  such women can be great characters for a video  like for exampledhanlaxmi in mumbaimen are shocked when they see me behind a steering wheel ferrying passengers  most ofthem think women are meant to cook and do household work   says dhanlaxmi devendra  oneof mumbai s few female taxi drivers  despite the snarky remarks that she often gets  dhanlaxmisays she loves her job because it gives her the autonomy to make decisions about her life	episode_done:True
text:however until four years ago  this wasn t the case?	labels:dhanlaxmi s son was two months old  when she decided to walk out of an abusive marriageshe went back to living with her parents and started looking for work to be able to supportherself and her son  she had never been employed before and was extremely proactive in	episode_done:True
text:looking for work  that is how she came across priyadarshini  an all women taxi service?	labels:company which trained its employees through driving lessons  self defense techniques and amodule on dealing with  troublesome  passengers  she applied right away and was selectedthis marked a new beginning in dhanlaxmi s lifetoday she spends most of the day driving  both male and female passengers around mumbaishe wants to get her son a sound education and dreams of building a house in the city   i amdetermined to make it happen with this taxi job   she signs offfilming tips   it is very important that you first identify your main character and get toknow her really well and get her consent  she will only agree to be part of your film ifshe knows you well and trusts you and the purpose of your filming  you will have tospend at least two days of filming with her  get plenty of b rolls of her full day  fromhousehold chores  to getting ready for work  receiving phone calls from clients  driving her carshots from inside and outside   you can interview her inside her car while she is waiting for a	episode_done:True
text:taxi driver different than a woman s? explore how  male  she had to be to get this  did she	labels:khel badal  dismantle patriarchy       39    www  videovolunteers  org	episode_done:True
text:have to cut her hair  wear pants or in any way  look like a man ? ask her what it it will take to	labels:see women taxi drivers in smaller cities like solapur or rajkot or shimla or srinagar  ask herwhat are the other professions that men currently dominate but can also be pursued by	episode_done:True
text:women?	labels:video story idea   23breaking stereotypesbedbhav pe praharkailash chandra is a farmer and has three daughters  typically  what we see is that parentswith one or more daughters will keep trying till they have a son  maybe they think that the sonwill bring back in dowry whatever was spent on the wedding of the two or three  foursometimes even five  daughters that came beforebut kailash thinks differently  he says his eldest daughter savita is extremely intelligent  shehas just finished school and he has admitted her into a year long coaching programme toprepare her for engineering and medical entrance exams  this year long programme isexpensive but kailash believes that  it will be better to spend this money now and let her standon her own two feet than spend it later on dowry  probably over a foolish boy who has no skillsand is dependent on his parentsfilming tips   the above case study reflects a progressive attitude that is not socommon  if you know of such cases  you should surely plan a video because theseare the real  heroes  we must acknowledge  getting consent from someone likekailash and his family will not be difficult because they will only be proud to tell theirstory  again  it s very important to capture the moments between the father and daughter andbetween the mother and daughter  also important is to capture the general conversation	episode_done:True
text:against a daughter? why can a daughter not carry out the rituals carried out by a son?	labels:remember your main character kailash is a farmer so it s important that you have visuals of himin the farm  sequences  not just single shots  visuals of savita reading and preparing for hertests are important  b rolls of savita going to classes on a bicycle are very crucial  these visuals	episode_done:True
text:show her as independent and confident  ask her what a girl can and cannot do? what does	labels:she have to say to those who believe that a woman should be in the house and only take care	episode_done:True
text:a boy man can?	labels:khel badal  dismantle patriarchy       40    www  videovolunteers  orgpart ii     reporting ongender based violencewhile reporting on cases of gender based violence  you must follow the protocols givenbelow  if you hear of a case of gender based violence in your community  find a suitable timeto meet the survivor and her family  remember  that the survivor and her family have beenthrough trauma  sensitivity to the survivor and her family should be at the heart of your filmingand steps to help theminformed consentensure that you have informed consent of the survivor before you interview her  inother words  this means that you must have the survivor s permission to film her storywith full knowledge of the consequences of your video reportyou must clearly explain good and bad consequences of filming to the survivor and herfamilyyou must    inform the survivor that the video will be circulated widely  it may also beseen by the attacker and therefore  may have a bearing on the survivor s security andsafetyhelp the survivor understand the reason you are filming and the importance of herspeaking upif you are reporting on a case of gender based violence leading to death  you needinformed consent of the victim s familyif the survivor is a minor i e under 18 years of age  the informed consent has to be givenby her parents legal guardian  merely taking the minor s consent is not enoughplease bear in mind that filming a minor  in any situation  without parent legal guardian sconsent is against the law  protection of children from sexual offences act  2012identity of the survivor and her familyrevealing the identity of a rape survivor is a punishable offence under the indian penal codewith up to 2 years imprisonment  without fine  the law makes an exception to this  whena  a police officer conducting the investigation authorises it in good faithb  the survivor authorizes it in writing orc  when the next kin of the survivor or victim authorizes itkhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       41    www  videovolunteers  orgwhile the law authorizes a police officer conducting the investigation to reveal asurvivor s identity in  good faith   you will not reveal the survivor s identityunless you have her or her family s consentif a survivor wishes her identity to be concealed  demonstrate by shooting asmall video clip  of someone else in the family or a friend colleague who has	episode_done:True
text:come with you  against light  or from the back in a way that does not show the?	labels:interviewee s face  play back this small clip to the survivor and her family so thatthey feel reassuredthe choice of speaking out or not  revealing identity or not is ultimately that ofthe survivor sif the survivor is a minor  we will not reveal name or face  even though parentsor guardians may want to do sokhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       42    www  videovolunteers  orgsexual violencebackground     sexual violence is a sexual act perpetrated against someone without theperson s freely given consent  including an attempt to engage in such an act using violencecoercion  making unwanted sexual advancesthe use of sexual violence against women  rape in particular has a long history  rape is thefourth most common crime in india  according to the  national crime records bureau  2013annual report  24 923   rape  cases were reported across india in 2012  out of these  24 470were committed by someone known to the victim  98  of the casesrape is a non bailable offence in india  except for  marital rape    a woman whose husbandrapes her can only seek recourse under the protection of women from domestic violence act2005   a civil law which offers protection to the victim  but has no scope for punishing theperpetratorhistory and tradition make the law hard to enforce  in remote and rural parts  patriarchal viewson gender still hold sway  and sexual assault is an unofficially accepted form of punishmentpatriarchal views are also propagated by insensitivity of the police  who at times refuse to filean fir and a society that blames a survivor for rapesexual violence against women   revenge rape  and rape as a tool to propagate caste basedatrocities are deeply entrenched in rural areas  women represent the  honor  of theircommunity and are viewed as family or community propertywhat constitutes sexual violenceafter the brutal of 23 year gang rape and murder paramedic in new delhi in december 2012the indian penal code was amended in 2013  through the criminal law amendment act  2013the amendment included new definitions of what constitutes sexual violence   harassmentthat is punishable by law  the definitions of sexual violence according to the law are as followsassault  section 354b   includes using criminal force  or attempting to disrobe a womanvoyeurism  section 354c   includes watching  capturing or sharing images of a womanengaged in a private act  against her will or without her consentstalking  section 354d   includes following or contacting a woman repeatedly even after sheclearly indicates her disinterestkhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       43    www  videovolunteers  orgtrafficking  section 370   includes recruiting  transporting  harbouring  transferring or receivinga person for the purpose of exploitation  using threats  force  deception  abuse of power orthrough giving or receiving paymentsrape  section 375   includes penetration of penis  penetration of any other part into thewoman s vagina or forcing her to do so with him or someone else  manipulation of any part ofher body to cause vaginal or anal penetration or penetration of any other body part  applicationof his mouth on a woman s vagina  anus  urethra or forcing her to do so with him or anyoneelse  without the woman s consentkhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       44    www  videovolunteers  orgrights of a survivorfiling an fir and protocols for the police	episode_done:True
text:an fir  first information report  is the survivor s account of the crime  however  a need?	labels:not necessarily be the one who files the fir  a witness to the incident  or a friend whohas sufficient knowledge of the crime  can also file an fir on the survivor s behalf  theymust do so only once they have her full consent  along with her willingness to be part ofthe investigation that will follow  remember  that this is the first document that thepolice will prepare to initiate investigationswhile every woman who has experienced sexual violence has the right to report	episode_done:True
text:whether she does so or not  is ultimately her choice the police  however  cannot?	labels:refuse to file an fir  a police personnel who refuses to file an fir is violating the rightsof a survivor and can face a penalty of up to two years of imprisonmentif a police officer or police station refuses to register an fir you can appeal to a higherauthority  for instance an sp or dcp   if they refuse  then go to a magistrate  for exampledistrict magistrate  chief judicial magistrate or chief metropolitan magistratean fir can be registered at any police station  the report will then be transferred to thestation it concernsthe complainant need not be physically present to start the process of lodging an firshe can call or send an e mailif the woman is mentally or physically disabled  either temporarily or permanently  thepolice officer must go to her home or a place convenient for her to register thecomplaint  if the offence registered is rape  the same procedure is applicablein the case of offences like sexual harassment  voyeurism  stalking  rape   gang rapethe report must only be recorded by a woman police officer   once the report isprepared  it is mandatory for the officer to read it back to the survivor  so that she canverify that her account has been taken down exactly the way it was narrated  if theofficer does not read it out  the survivor has the right to ask her to do soa survivor should feel free to and not hesitate to ask for changes to be made to ensurethat the report is clear and accuratea survivor must always cross check details in her report and get her own copyonce the survivor receives a copy of the fir  the investigating officer should producethe survivor in front of a magistrate within 24 hours to record her statementevery survivor is entitled to a court appointed lawyera  survivor can call up the investigating officer for updates on the status of theinvestigationthe police shall not reveal the identity of the victim to the media or to the publica woman or a child shall not be detained in a police station overnightif the victim needs a translator the same shall be providedkhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       45    www  videovolunteers  orgwithin 24 hours of receiving information the victim shall be taken to the nearesthospital for medical examination and careif the victim has any other special needs  the same shall be metif the survivor is a childthe statement shall be recorded at a place where the child resides or where the childfeels comfortablethe officer recording the statement shall not be below the rank of sub inspector andshould preferably be a woman officerthe police officer shall not be in uniformthe child shall not come in contact in any way with the accuseda person who the child trusts shall be presentfor mentally or physically  temporary or permanent  disabled child  a special educatorexpert may be called if possible  the statement of the child may be recorded usingaudio video electronicif required  the police shall take the child to the nearest shelter home for emergencyshelter and produce the child before the child welfare committee  cwcthe police shall report all cases of child sexual offences to the child welfare committeeand special court within 24 hoursmedical examinationmedical examinations can only be conducted with the survivor s consenta person who the victim trusts shall be present at the time of medical examinationa female victim shall be examined only by a lady doctorthe police shall ensure the samples collected from the hospital are sent to the forensiclaboratory at the earliestthe medical practitioner shall treat the survivor for cuts  bruises  bodily and genitalinjuries  exposure to stds   hiv  s he shall discuss possible pregnancy and emergencycontraceptives with the survivorall hospitals are mandated to give free first aid treatment to survivors  and aremandated under the law to report the incident to the policethe supreme court in 2014 banned the two finger test to determine rape  andinternational standards state that any medical tests done should be non invasive  if thesurvivor does consent  then the tests must only be done by a registered medicalpractitionerthe victim may be referred for mental  psychological or other counsellingnon treatment of a victim by a hospital is an offence punishable with imprisonment for aterm which may extend to one year or fine or bothkhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       46    www  videovolunteers  orgreporting   interview tipswhen you come across a case of sexual violence  knowing the rights of a survivor  theprocess of filing an fir and protocols for police and doctors  will help you examine anddocument the sexual survivor s experience in seeking recourse and report in detail onthe violations faced and perpetrated by police or medical practitioners  read throughthe sections above carefully before you meet the survivorfirst  have a conversation with the survivor  without  taking out your cameraensure that you have informed consent before filmingin case the survivor is an adult  do not reveal the name and identity of the survivor inyour video unless you have her consent or the family s consent in case of death ofthe victimdo get the age of the survivorif the survivor is a minor  his her identity   name and face cannot be revealed  shoot ina way that doesn t reveal the identity of the survivorensure that the survivor or the family member you are interviewing is seatedcomfortablydo not keep asking her to repeat details of the instance of sexual violence  do notpress for details if you see the survivor breaking down  you can come back to details ata time when she is ready to talk or  get the details from another individual who is awareof the case and include it in your p2cchecklistthe following points are very important to bear in mind as you speak with the survivor  ideallyyou should record one v o to cover the following details	episode_done:True
text:experience with the police  did they cooperate? were they sensitive?  refer to section	labels:titled  rights of a survivor   filing an fir and protocols for police  above	episode_done:True
text:how was the medical test conducted?    to check if the banned two finger test was	labels:conducted you can get a copy of the medico legal examination and run it by a doctor  ifyou have trouble verifying the mlc  reach out to the goa t mremember   it is crucial to establish  violations   see above section   merely narrating what	episode_done:True
text:happened  gory details  is not enough  you need to say how rights of the survivor  legal?	labels:procedures  police protocols have been violatedkhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       47    www  videovolunteers  orgmarital rapebackground    there is no criminal law that gives women the right to say no to forced sexualintercourse within a marriage and perpetrators to be punished  this means that a woman inindia is denied the most fundamental right of self determination over her bodythe only legal recourse available to women facing sexual violence within a marriage is the the	episode_done:True
text:protection to the victim  but has no scope of punishing the perpetrator  which is why a criminal?	labels:law against marital rape is neededa man can also be accused of rape for having sexual intercourse with his wife if the wife is	episode_done:True
text:below 15 years of age  however  the clause in itself is a contradiction since the legal age of?	labels:marriage for women in the country is 18 yearswhile intervening or reporting on a case of marital rape  you must follow protocols laid out inthe beginning of this section  interviewing tips   reporting checklist remain the same as in thesexual violence section	episode_done:True
text:such a case gives you a chance to say why we need a criminal law dealing with marital rape?	labels:legal tip  a leg al case will be filed under the domestic violence act  2005 since there is no	episode_done:True
text:criminal law to deal with it  however  since it is a civil law it does not have the scope to punish?	labels:the perpetratorkhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       48    www  videovolunteers  orgdomestic violencebackground     from 50 703 in 2003  the number of reported domestic violence cases hasgone up to 118 866 in 2013   an increase of 134  over 10 yearsdomestic violence is not unique to india  it occurs around the world  but what sets it apart inindia from many other countries is the culture of silence that still surrounds itaccording to a family survey done by the government  more than 54  of men and 51  ofwomen said that it was okay for a man to beat his wife if she disrespected her in lawsneglected her home or children  or even over something as trivial as putting less   or moresalt in the foodin 2005  the indian government passed the protection of women from domestic violence actthe law includes verbal  physical  sexual or economic abuse   whether actual or threatenedthis means that all of the following constitute as domestic violencehitting  punching  slapping  choking or shovingdestruction of personal propertyif a partner prevents a woman from seeing friends and familyinsults in public and or in privateexerting control over finances	episode_done:True
text:showing extreme jealousy or accusation of infidelity?	labels:if a partner forces sex upon a womandowry harassmentfilling a case on domestic violencesoure    http   www bellbajao org home resources the law pwdvaa woman or somebody on her behalf  can approach the following to file a direct informationreport  dir  with one of the followingthe protection officer  po   who is appointed by the government  the po registers the dirpresents it before the magistrate and ensures that the orders passed by the court areenforcedkhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       49    www  videovolunteers  orga service provider    a voluntary organization registered with the state government  serviceproviders assist in filing the dir with the po  provide her with legal aid  medical carecounseling or any other supportthe police  can file a criminal complaint under section 498a of the ipc  on request the policewill record a dir under the pwdva at the same time and forward the same to the magistratethe magistrate    a woman can directly approach the magistrate s court to file a dir under thepwdva  if the woman already has a pending case  then she can fill in an application under thepwdva and file it as an  interim application  in the pending proceedingsremember that protocols for you to report on a case of domestic violence remain the sameas those of sexual violencereporting   interview tipsyour interview with the survivor should be conversational and not a rapid fire ofquestions on camera  to ensure this  spend at least one full day with the survivor tobuild a rapport with her before you interview her on camerayou could utilize this day to get good b rollswhile it is important to talk to the survivor about the form of violence faced   do notlimit your conversation to thathave conversations with the survivor to understand what it took for her to say no to theviolence or to walk out of the marriage  was she financially dependent on her	episode_done:True
text:violence?	labels:whether or not she files an fir  is her choice  yet  do ask her what made her file an fir	episode_done:True
text:and  if she chose not to  talk to her to understand why?	labels:checklist	episode_done:True
text:did they refuse to file an fir? if an fir was filed  what is happening in the case?	labels:khel badal  dismantle patriarchy       50    www  videovolunteers  orgacid attacksbackground    acid throwing is an offence under section 326 of the indian penal codethe minimum punishment is 10 years  imprisonment  it can extend up to life imprisonment withfine  this law was brought in 2013 with the amendments in laws dealing with sexualharassment on the recommendations of the justice verma committeein 2013 the supreme court has laid down several guidelines for compensation and medicaltreatment of survivors as well as regulation of acid saleyet   in 2014  309 acid attacks were reported from across indiain most acid attack cases  the perpetrator is known  and more often than not  it is a man whoseadvances a woman has rejected  acid attacks cause grievous injuries  permanent disabilitiesoften leaving survivors in despair  acid attack victims have been rejected jobs due to facialdisfigurementsupreme court of india directives on treatment andrehabilitation of acid attack survivorsfull medical assistance  free treatment  bed  food  water and medicines  should beprovided for survivors of acid attacks by government run and private hospital  nohospital can refuse to treat acid attack survivors citing lack of specialized services  firstaid should be administered and after stabilization the survivor may be shifted to aspecialized facilityaction can be taken against hospitals clinics for refusing to treat survivors of acidattackin laxmi s case in 2014  the supreme court of india mandated that acid attack survivorsshould be given a minimum compensation of  rs 3 lakh within 15 daysin december 2015  in a writ petition filed by parivartan kendra in the case of acidattack on sisters  chanchal and sonam paswan enhanced the compensationamount to 10 lakh  in doing so  the court said   the mandate given by this courtin  laxmi s case  nowhere restricts the court from giving more compensation tothe victim of acid attack  especially when the victim has suffered serious injurieson her body which is required to be taken into consideration by this court  inpeculiar facts  this court can grant even more compensation to the victim than3 00 000compensation in cases of acid attacks is released by the district legal servicesauthoritythe hospital where the acid attack survivor is first treated should give acertificate that the individual is a victim of an acid attack  this certificate can bekhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       51    www  videovolunteers  orgutilized by the survivor for treatment  reconstructive surgeries or any otherschemes for survivors by the state or union governmentsupreme court of india guidelines on regulating sale of acid tocurb acid attacksover the counter  sale of acid is completely prohibited unless  shopkeepers maintain adaily record of buyers and the quantity of acid soldsellers shall sell acid only after the buyer has produced before them a proof of identityresidential address and telephone number and has  specified the purpose  ofpurchasing acidall stocks of acid must be declared by the seller with the concerned sub divisionalmagistrate  sdm  within 15 daysin case that undeclared stock of acid is discovered  it will be up to the concerned sdmto confiscate the stock and impose suitable fine on such seller of up to rs  50 000acid sold in retail must be so diluted that it does not have any corrosive effect onhumansacid will not be sold to anyone below the age of 18the concerned sdm may impose a fine of up to rs  50 000   on any person whocommits breach of any of the above directionsfor intervention in the case  check for which of the guidelines from the two sets above havenot been followed   record one voice over with just these detailsreporting   interview tipsthe following points are very important to bear in mind as you speak with the survivorwhether you making a video or writing down the interview or writing it for your votips while filming interviewingyou must follow protocols for reporting and intervention in the beginning of thegender based violence sectionidentity  do get the age of the survivor  if she is a minor  her identity   name and facecannot be revealed  shoot in a way that doesn t reveal the identity of the survivordo not keep asking her to repeat details of her assault  do not press for details if yousee the survivor breaking down  you can come back to details at a time when she isready to talk or  get the details from another individual who is aware of the case andinclude it in your p2censure that the family of the survivor is seated comfortably during your interviewchecklistcheck if an fir has been filed  if yes  do ask the survivor about her experience with the	episode_done:True
text:police  did they cooperate? were they sensitive?	labels:khel badal  dismantle patriarchy       52    www  videovolunteers  orghas the district legal services authority released compensation for the survivor as per	episode_done:True
text:who are the accused?	labels:what is the motive of the crime according to the pokhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       53    www  videovolunteers  orgdowrybackground    the tradition of paying dowry at the time of a daughter s marriage is rampantdespite the dowry prohibition act  1961  this amount can be so huge that many parents go toextreme lengths to avoid having a daughter in the first placemany people especially men s groups criticize the anti dowry laws saying  w                    omen and their	episode_done:True
text:families misuse the laws  however  despite these laws  dowry harassment and other related?	labels:abuses continue and  dowry deaths  are common  in 2010  8 339 dowry related murders orsuicides were reported across indiacase study   mita had been married for merely 2 months when she left her in laws  housebecause she could not bear mental and physical harassment by her husband and his familyshe came to her parents  house in sandhida village with her three year old son  her in lawsasked her to bring jewelry and cash but mita refused to do so as she was severely beaten with	episode_done:True
text:a stick and was branded by a hot iron  however  her parents insisted that she must try and?	labels:make her marriage work otherwise it would shame the family  tweak case study with   what ifgirl has siblingsreporting   interview tipsa lot of women come back to their parents  homes due to violence related to dowryharassment  you should interview the woman as well as her parentsin your interview the woman  don t focus on the incident violence itself  when shereturned etc  you need to explore the threshold   at what point did she say enough is	episode_done:True
text:enough and walk out?	labels:in the interview talk to parents about dowry   ask them if they would have given the	episode_done:True
text:if they have a son  ask  will you be seeking dowry when you get your son married?	labels:b rolls   photo albums of marriage  sequences of the woman and family  shots ofvillage  surroundings and neighbourhoodkhel badal  dismantle patriarchy       54    www  videovolunteers  org	episode_done:True