What is maternal health?
It refers to the health of women during pregnancy, childbirth and the time immediately after the baby is born.Because women bear children, maternal health also includes things like women’s education and financial situation, and things related to her empowerment in her family, like whether she makes decisions.
How serious is this issue?
Every ten minutes a woman dies in India from pregnancy and complications of child birth.56,000 women die a year in childbirth.
What are the phases of a woman’s pregnancy?
There are three phases of pregnancy and you could make videos on the challenges a woman would face in each of these phases Pre-conception Phase.Women don’t space their pregnancies enough. Women should wait at least 3-5 years between pregnancies. If they don’t, they can face complications during child birth.
Why women can't get pregnant too young?
Often women get pregnant too young. If do get pregnant young, they can suffer from bleeding, eclampsia etc. Also, they are not mature enough to be able to assert themselves and take control of their body.
What is Pregnancy Pre-natal Phase?
Malnutrition. The cause of malnutrition is bad health services. 
What are conditions related to malnutrition?
Marasmus (wasting) and deficiency conditions like Osteoporosis (Calcium deficiency), Anaemia (Iron deficiency) and Goitre (Iodine deficiency), and prevalence of infectious diseases such as TB (Tuberculosis) and various sexually transmitted diseases (STDs like Syphilis and HIV) are some of the other conditions which pose difficulties to conception, in carrying pregnancies to term and in delivery.
What will be the results about failures of immunisation?
Failures of immunisation drives to vaccinate against some of the most commonly encountered diseases like Hepatitis, Tuberculosis and Rubella are yet another source of complications for maternal health. And are yet another area which could be avoided through better and more informed health care access and delivery.
What are some of the key challenges faced at the time of giving birth?
Gaining medical access is one of the key challenges in India. The following issues
 may be focused on whole monitoring the challenges.
Why do women die?
Deaths are due to a number of factors which span the different phases of maternal health as well as different components of a woman’s life.
What is potential death phase?
Infections due to non use a sterile kit during delivery.Home Births without trained providers.
What is requirements of District Hospitals?
District Hospitals or General Hospitals: are controlled by the state government and should have 100 to 300 beds.
What is requirements of Taluk Hospitals?
Taluk Hospitals (Sub divisional/sub district): Taluk level hospitals are controlled by the state government and serves the people in respective taluks.
Community Health Centre CHCs?
Community Health Centres are available in basic health unit in the urban areas which has 30 to 50 beds and serves a population of 100,000 to 500,000 people
Primary Health Centres?
The most basic units with the most basic facilities, and especially serving rural India. It is staffed by a medical officer or medical doctor, and generally serves a population of 30,000 to 50,000, with up to two beds.
Every pregnant woman has the following rights and entitlements during her pregnancy?
Free pregnancy testing using Nischay Kit with ANM at Sub Centre;Free comprehensive abortion care at CHCs and District Hospitals;Free ANC checkups (four) with ANM at sub centre which includes,etc.
What kind of nutritious food should be distributed and in what quantity?
Children in the age group 6 months to 3 years: are given Take Home Ration (THR) under the ICDS Scheme. However, in addition to the current mixed practice of giving
either dry or raw ration (wheat and rice) which is often consumed by the entire family and
not the child alone, THR should be given in the form that is palatable to the child instead of the entire family.
Children in the age group 3 to 6 years?
Children are served Hot Cooked Meal in AWCs and mini-AWCs under the ICDS Scheme.
What vaccinations and medicines should be available in the Anganwadi Centre?
Six vaccinations to prevent the following should be available: -poliomyelitis,diphtheria,
pertussis, tetanus, tuberculosis and measles. Also simple medicines to prevent cough, cold
and fever must be available.
Who is the head of Anganwadi and where can we file complaints if services are not in
place?
The Anganwadi Worker is the head of the Anganwadi. If the services are not in place, one
can file a complaint with the Mukhya Sevika who is the supervisor of the Anganwadi
workers or higher up is the Child Development Project Officer CDPO.
Role of Asha worker?
Accredited social health activists (ASHAs) are community health workers instituted by the government of India's Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) as part of the National Rural Health Mission (NRHM). 
She functions with support from the Anganwadi Worker?
Create awareness on Health, Nutrition, basic sanitation, hygienic practices, healthy living and working conditions, information on existing health services and need for timely utilization of health, nutrition and family welfare service, etc.
Case story about Janani Suraksha Yojana (JSY) and Janani Shishu Suraksha Karyakaram (JSSK)?
Background: Both these schemes were launched under the National Rural Health Mission
(NRHM). The objective of the schemes is to reduce maternal and neonatal deaths by
providing free institutional care.
Integrated Child Development Scheme?
Background: This scheme runs to assist pregnant women, children between the age group
of 0=6 years and nursing mothers. These services are provided at the village level through
the Anganwadi workers who are associated with the Primary Health Centers (PHCs)
Entitlements.
Solutions?
If the above entitlements are not received then:It should be informed to the Mukhya Sevika and the Village Health Sanitation and Nutrition Committee.The rationale for making these committees was for improving health awareness and access of community for health services. 
Could you provide case story for early marriage?
Sure. Background: Early marriage has been seen as a major problem affecting the health of women. Surveys show that 47% of women in the country were married by the age of 18. It is also known that women who have a pregnancy at a very young age face a high risk of morbidity and mortality. Story: Mita is a 18 year old adivasi girl from Jharkhand who was married off early due to societal pressure. In her first pregnancy she had multiple problems - malaria, jaundice,swelling of feet and face, anaemia Being an adivasi, and the ANM not visiting her part of the village she did not receive ANC. Her labour pains started at midnight and after visiting3 facilities, Mita died of eclampsia.Gaps and Violations: There are 2 violations that took place with Mitlabel:1)Inadequate ANC and access to care not available being her first pregnancy. 2)No accountability during referral.
Could you provide some tips?
Tips,if you see the practice of early marriage or maternal deaths in their community in addition to ANC care not being available to certain parts of the community village, the following are the questions you should ask: Is early marriage very common in this village? Why does the ANM not provide ANC care in the ST hamlets? How long has this been happening for?
What should I do?
Solutions: Your Call to Action can be to the Village Health Sanitation and Nutrition Committee which should take action by writing to the Block Medical Officer BMO and demanding the ANM be dismissed for not doing her job. Also, the committee should motivate someone from the village to apply for the post and get trained.
Case of about early marriage and first pregnancy?
Village Health Sanitation Committees Initiative for delaying early marriage and first pregnancy.Background: Apni Beti, Apna Dhan (ABAD), which translates to My daughter, My
wealth, is one of India's first conditional cash transfer programmes dedicated to delaying young marriages across the nation. No other conditional cash transfer has this focus of delaying marriage.
tive actions which will help us achieve our goal of decreasing maternal mortality.
Story: When Jhansi was 15, her parents arranged her marriage to Suresh, a 17-year-old boy. Suresh’s mother began making Jhansi do all the housework - she had to cook, sweep,wash clothes and fetch water. She was not allowed to pursue her studies or work outside. About 8 months after she got married, Jhansi became pregnant. One day, when Jhansi was returning home after fetching water, she met the Anganwadi worker. She asked her why she was looking so ill and weak. Jhansi told her about her pregnancy and said that she felt.
Gaps and Violations?
There are 2 violations that took place with Jhansi?
Not allowed to seek ANC care by her family members,Gender violence in all forms; physical, psychological and emotional.
Tips for this situation?
if you see situations such as the above you should ask the following questions to
the community members. 1) What is the legal age of marriage? 2) Does early marriage happening your community?
Case story When Inability to Make Decisions?
Inability to make decisions regarding one’s Bodies and Reproductive Health due to Patriarchal Norms & Gender Violence.
Gaps and Violations?
There are 2 violations that took place with Jhansi?
Not allowed to seek ANC care by her family members,Gender violence in all forms; physical, psychological and emotional.
Tips to CC?
if you see situations such as the above you should ask the following questions to
the community members. 1) What is the legal age of marriage? 2) Does early marriage happenin your community?
CASE STORY for Out-of-pocket? 
Out-of-pocket expenditure due to lack of facilities and personnel at the
PHCs and District Hospital.Background: Maternal health care services in public health facilities are supposed to be free, and with the launch of the Janani Sishu Suraksha Karyakram, free at the point-of-delivery services are guaranteed during pregnancy, delivery and post-partum period.
Tips to CC 4? 
If you see that women are being referred to higher facilities for care due to complications or non availability of care in the area, the following are the questions you
should ask the woman or her family: Was your planned choice of place for delivery
different from actual and if yes, why? 
CASE STORY for Lacking of Facilities? 
Lack of facilities at PHCs and district hospital which forces mothers to leave the hospital before the mandatory 48 hours of stay Background: Since the majority of maternal deaths happen either during birth or in the first 24 hours after birth, it is important that after a normal delivery the mother and the baby are kept under a skilled attendant’s observation for 24 to 48 hours. 